Hi friends
In this video let us discuss about function pointers or
pointers to function
So like pointer to normal variables
We can also use pointers to point functions. So we
know that variables has memory address so that we can
refer that address using pointers
But what about functions? Is each function has a unique
memory address?
The answer is yes. Like every variable, function also has
a unique memory
address. Take an example. Here
The address of the function fun
Is 5024
Now the syntax for declaring a function pointer
is return type followed by a pointer name within parentheses
followed by parameters within parentheses and a semi colon
See an example
If we want to create a function pointer whose return
type is void and which won't take any arguments then
the function pointer syntax will be void function pointer_name
and an empty parentheses
Similarly if we want to create a function pointer whose
return type is int and it will take an integer
value as an argument
Then the Function pointer syntax will be int function
pointer name and int in parenthesis. See this example programme
Here we have the main function and the function
Hello
So in main first we declare a function pointer fptr
so function hello's
return type is void. So write void and it
doesn't take any arguments
So write empty parenthesis and then write the function pointer
name like this
So now we assign the address of function hello to
this pointer
And we can do that simply by assigning function name
to the pointer variable
So we have fptr equal to hello
That is a pointer name equal to function name
So the address of function hello that is 6024 will
be assigned to fptr and finally the programme returns 0.
Now how to dereference function pointer? We can
use value at operator to call the function like
*fptr and after that we need to pass the
parameters within parentheses. Here the function hello deos not take any
parameter. So we have placed an empty parentheses
It will call the hello function and the output hello
will be printed on the screen
Let's see another example with parameters and return type
Here we have the main function and the function sum
with two integers as parameters and returning an
integer. Here main function has the address 5024 the function
Sum has the address 6024. In main first we declare
an integer variable ans and now we declare the
function pointer. So here the function
sum has return type int and two integer
parameters
So we need to specify that in the declaration of
function pointer
So we write like this
int * fptr within parentheses and int int also in parenthesis
Now we assign function address to fptr simply by
writing the function name sum. So 6024 is assigned to fptr
Now let us call the function by passing 10 and 5
So we write *fptr in parentheses followed by arguments
in parentheses
So control goes to the function sum and here
10 + 5 is calculated and the result 15 is returned
to the calling function main and is stored in ans.
Now we can print the result. So we will get
15 printed on the screen
Now let us call the  function again with values 10
and 50
So we write
*fptr in parentheses followed by arguments 10 and 50
also in parenthesis
So control reaches sum and
10 + 50 is calculated here and the result 60 is returned and
stored in ans
Now let us print that too.
So we will get 60 printed.
Finally the programme return zero
Now the function pointer syntax is little complex
compared to other data types so we can make it
easy by using the typedef keyword.
The syntax to create a function pointer
using typedef is the key word typedef followed
by the function return type followed by function pointer name
in parentheses and the parameters information within parentheses and finally
a semi colon
Now see an example here we are going to create
a function pointer for sum function
The return type of sum function is int. So  write
typedef int followed by the pointer name and the sum
function takes  two integer argument. So write int int with in
parenthesis followed by a semicolon
So if we want to create a function pointer
which takes two integer argument and returns an integer value
we can simply create it using fp like
fp fptr semiclon. Here  fptr is a pointer
to function which takes two arguments and returns in integer
value
Next we are assigning the address of sum function to
fptr and as we did
In the previous example we pass 10 and 5 to
the function
So 10 + 5 equal to 15
It is returned and stored in ans and is printed
Now we call with 10 and 50 and result 60
is returned to main and stored in ans and it
is also printed and finally the programme return zero
In the next video we will learn how to pass
and return function pointer to the function
So that's all and thank you for watching this video